README.md, before:

# eslint-config-flat-gitignore

[![npm version][npm-version-src]][npm-version-href]
[![npm downloads][npm-downloads-src]][npm-downloads-href]
[![bundle][bundle-src]][bundle-href]
[![JSDocs][jsdocs-src]][jsdocs-href]
[![License][license-src]][license-href]

`.gitignore` support for [ESLint Flat Config](https://eslint.org/docs/latest/use/configure/configuration-files-new).

## Usage

```bash
npm i -D eslint-config-flat-gitignore
```

```js
// eslint.config.js
import gitignore from 'eslint-config-flat-gitignore'

export default [
  // recommended putting it at the first
  gitignore(),
  // your other configs here
]
```

By default it will only looks for `.gitignore` but NOT `.eslintignore`, as we would recommended move away from `.eslintignore` to declare directly in `eslint.config.js` for single source of truth. If you still want it, you can pass the `files` option to specify the files to look for.

```js
gitignore({
  files: [
    '.gitignore',
    '.eslintignore',
  ]
})
```

By default, this plugin throws if any of the ignore files are missing. This can be disabled by passing setting the `strict` option to `false`.

```js
gitignore({
  files: [
    '.gitignore',
    '.eslintignore',
  ],
  strict: false,
})
```

## Sponsors

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/antfu/static/sponsors.svg">
    <img src='https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/antfu/static/sponsors.svg'/>
  </a>
</p>

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE) License © 2023-PRESENT [Anthony Fu](https://github.com/antfu)


<!-- Badges -->

[npm-version-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/eslint-config-flat-gitignore?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[npm-version-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/eslint-config-flat-gitignore
[npm-downloads-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/eslint-config-flat-gitignore?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[npm-downloads-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/eslint-config-flat-gitignore
[bundle-src]: https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/eslint-config-flat-gitignore?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669&label=minzip
[bundle-href]: https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=eslint-config-flat-gitignore
[license-src]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/antfu/eslint-config-flat-gitignore.svg?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[license-href]: https://github.com/antfu/eslint-config-flat-gitignore/blob/main/LICENSE
[jsdocs-src]: https://img.shields.io/badge/jsdocs-reference-080f12?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[jsdocs-href]: https://www.jsdocs.io/package/eslint-config-flat-gitignore

Commit message:

docs: updated readme with fallbackToRoot option

README.md, after:

# eslint-config-flat-gitignore

[![npm version][npm-version-src]][npm-version-href]
[![npm downloads][npm-downloads-src]][npm-downloads-href]
[![bundle][bundle-src]][bundle-href]
[![JSDocs][jsdocs-src]][jsdocs-href]
[![License][license-src]][license-href]

`.gitignore` support for [ESLint Flat Config](https://eslint.org/docs/latest/use/configure/configuration-files-new).

## Usage

```bash
npm i -D eslint-config-flat-gitignore
```

```js
// eslint.config.js
import gitignore from 'eslint-config-flat-gitignore'

export default [
  // recommended putting it at the first
  gitignore(),
  // your other configs here
]
```

By default it will only looks for `.gitignore` but NOT `.eslintignore`, as we would recommended move away from `.eslintignore` to declare directly in `eslint.config.js` for single source of truth. If you still want it, you can pass the `files` option to specify the files to look for.

```js
gitignore({
  files: [
    '.gitignore',
    '.eslintignore',
  ]
})
```

By default, this plugin throws if any of the ignore files are missing. This can be disabled by passing setting the `strict` option to `false`.

```js
gitignore({
  files: [
    '.gitignore',
    '.eslintignore',
  ],
  strict: false,
})
```

By default, if no `.gitignore` is found in the cwd then this plugin will keep searching in the upper folders, until it find one or reach the root folder. This behaviour is useful in monorepo scenarios. This can be disabled by setting the `fallbackToRoot` option to `false`.

```js
gitignore({
  fallbackToRoot: false
})
```

## Sponsors

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/antfu/static/sponsors.svg">
    <img src='https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/antfu/static/sponsors.svg'/>
  </a>
</p>

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE) License © 2023-PRESENT [Anthony Fu](https://github.com/antfu)


<!-- Badges -->

[npm-version-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/eslint-config-flat-gitignore?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[npm-version-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/eslint-config-flat-gitignore
[npm-downloads-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/eslint-config-flat-gitignore?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[npm-downloads-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/eslint-config-flat-gitignore
[bundle-src]: https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/eslint-config-flat-gitignore?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669&label=minzip
[bundle-href]: https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=eslint-config-flat-gitignore
[license-src]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/antfu/eslint-config-flat-gitignore.svg?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[license-href]: https://github.com/antfu/eslint-config-flat-gitignore/blob/main/LICENSE
[jsdocs-src]: https://img.shields.io/badge/jsdocs-reference-080f12?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[jsdocs-href]: https://www.jsdocs.io/package/eslint-config-flat-gitignore
